README.md, before:

# Contrib

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/spack/contrib.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/spack/contrib)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/spack/contrib/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/spack/contrib)
[![Code Style: Black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

A python package for making stacked area plots of contributions to a git
repository over time.  Plots can show contributions by authors, or by
organizations.

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/spack/contrib/master/data/spack-pkgs-plot.png" width=600>
</p>

## Usage

To use `contrib`, you'll need to create a configuration file telling it
where to find your code.  Below is an example for Spack; you can find
complete code in the
[spack-contributions](https://github.com/spack/spack-contributions) repo.

```yaml
contrib:
  # Path to your git repository. to run git blame on.
  # Consider making this a git submodule.
  repo:   ./spack

  # JSON file mapping authors to organizations (optional)
  orgmap: ./author-to-org.json

  # Separate parts of the repository to process (optional).  For each
  # commit, Spack looks for files that match the patterns in each part.
  # For a simple repo, you may only need one regular expression per part.
  # In Spack, the packages have moved around in the repo over time so we
  # provide multiple patterns.
  parts:
    packages:
      - ^var/spack/repos/builtin/packages/.*\.py$
      - ^var/spack/packages/.*\.py$
      - ^lib/spack/spack/packages/.*\.py$
```

The `repo` needs to be in your local filesystem.

### Mapping authors to organizations
`author-to-org.json` is optional.  If you choose to provide it, it should
be simple `json` dictionary mapping authors to organizations:

```json
{
  "Author 1": "UIUC",
  "Author 2": "LBL",
  ...
  "Author N": "LLNL"
}
```

You can run `contrib --update-org-map` to look at your repository's
history and generate this file automatically.

### Running

Once you've got all of that set up, you can run `contrib` in the
directory where `contrib.yaml` lives:

```console
$ ls
author-to-org.json  contrib.yaml
$ contrib
==> Indexing 49 commits.

STARTED       0/49 53ab298e88f80454f7f7c20ef200a3dbd0870473
    packages: processed 45/3487 blames (9.04/s)
...
```

By default, `contrib` will sample 50 commits from your repository and
plot them.  If you want it to plot fewer samples, you can run `contrib
--samples SAMPLES` where `SAMPLES` is a number of your choosing.
`contrib` tries to use the available processors on the machine it is
run, and by default it will run parallel `git blame` jobs.  You can
control the parallelism with the `--jobs JOBS` argument.

`contrib` has to run `git blame` for each sampled commit and for each
file in the `parts` section of your `contrib.yaml` file (or for all files
if `parts` is not provided), so it can take a long time to run if your
repo's history is long.  `contrib`'s output shows how many `git blame`
calls remain and how fast blames are currently completing.

### Cached data

`contrib` caches results of `git blame` in a directory called
`line-data`.  For large repositories, this can get to be quite large, so
make sure you have a decent amount of space available (gigabytes for
large repositories).

## License

Contrib is part of the Spack project. Spack is distributed under the
terms of both the MIT license and the Apache License (Version 2.0). Users
may choose either license, at their option.

All new contributions must be made under both the MIT and Apache-2.0
licenses.

See [LICENSE-MIT](https://github.com/spack/contrib/blob/master/LICENSE-MIT),
[LICENSE-APACHE](https://github.com/spack/contrib/blob/master/LICENSE-APACHE),
[COPYRIGHT](https://github.com/spack/contrib/blob/master/COPYRIGHT), and
[NOTICE](https://github.com/spack/contrib/blob/master/NOTICE) for details.

SPDX-License-Identifier: (Apache-2.0 OR MIT)

LLNL-CODE-647188

Commit message:

Add `pip` installation instructions to `README.md`.

README.md, after:

# Contrib

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/spack/contrib.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/spack/contrib)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/spack/contrib/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/spack/contrib)
[![Code Style: Black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

A python package for making stacked area plots of contributions to a git
repository over time.  Plots can show contributions by authors, or by
organizations.

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/spack/contrib/master/data/spack-pkgs-plot.png" width=600>
</p>

## Installation

`contrib` is on PyPI, so you can just `pip install` it:

```console
pip install contrib
```

Alternately, you can clone this project, add its directory to your
`PYTHONPATH`, and add the `bin` directory to your `PATH`.

## Usage

To use `contrib`, you'll need to create a configuration file telling it
where to find your code.  Below is an example for Spack; you can find
complete code in the
[spack-contributions](https://github.com/spack/spack-contributions) repo.

```yaml
contrib:
  # Path to your git repository. to run git blame on.
  # Consider making this a git submodule.
  repo:   ./spack

  # JSON file mapping authors to organizations (optional)
  orgmap: ./author-to-org.json

  # Separate parts of the repository to process (optional).  For each
  # commit, Spack looks for files that match the patterns in each part.
  # For a simple repo, you may only need one regular expression per part.
  # In Spack, the packages have moved around in the repo over time so we
  # provide multiple patterns.
  parts:
    packages:
      - ^var/spack/repos/builtin/packages/.*\.py$
      - ^var/spack/packages/.*\.py$
      - ^lib/spack/spack/packages/.*\.py$
```

The `repo` needs to be in your local filesystem.

### Mapping authors to organizations
`author-to-org.json` is optional.  If you choose to provide it, it should
be simple `json` dictionary mapping authors to organizations:

```json
{
  "Author 1": "UIUC",
  "Author 2": "LBL",
  ...
  "Author N": "LLNL"
}
```

You can run `contrib --update-org-map` to look at your repository's
history and generate this file automatically.

### Running

Once you've got all of that set up, you can run `contrib` in the
directory where `contrib.yaml` lives:

```console
$ ls
author-to-org.json  contrib.yaml
$ contrib
==> Indexing 49 commits.

STARTED       0/49 53ab298e88f80454f7f7c20ef200a3dbd0870473
    packages: processed 45/3487 blames (9.04/s)
...
```

By default, `contrib` will sample 50 commits from your repository and
plot them.  If you want it to plot fewer samples, you can run `contrib
--samples SAMPLES` where `SAMPLES` is a number of your choosing.
`contrib` tries to use the available processors on the machine it is
run, and by default it will run parallel `git blame` jobs.  You can
control the parallelism with the `--jobs JOBS` argument.

`contrib` has to run `git blame` for each sampled commit and for each
file in the `parts` section of your `contrib.yaml` file (or for all files
if `parts` is not provided), so it can take a long time to run if your
repo's history is long.  `contrib`'s output shows how many `git blame`
calls remain and how fast blames are currently completing.

### Cached data

`contrib` caches results of `git blame` in a directory called
`line-data`.  For large repositories, this can get to be quite large, so
make sure you have a decent amount of space available (gigabytes for
large repositories).

## License

Contrib is part of the Spack project. Spack is distributed under the
terms of both the MIT license and the Apache License (Version 2.0). Users
may choose either license, at their option.

All new contributions must be made under both the MIT and Apache-2.0
licenses.

See [LICENSE-MIT](https://github.com/spack/contrib/blob/master/LICENSE-MIT),
[LICENSE-APACHE](https://github.com/spack/contrib/blob/master/LICENSE-APACHE),
[COPYRIGHT](https://github.com/spack/contrib/blob/master/COPYRIGHT), and
[NOTICE](https://github.com/spack/contrib/blob/master/NOTICE) for details.

SPDX-License-Identifier: (Apache-2.0 OR MIT)

LLNL-CODE-647188
